---
title: "Deploying Real Group Policy (and Extra Endpoint Policy Manager Settings) Overview"
description: "Deploying Real Group Policy (and Extra Endpoint Policy Manager Settings) Overview"
sidebar_position: 10
---
# Deploying Real Group Policy (and Extra Endpoint Policy Manager Settings) Overview

Your MDM service is awesome… but it doesn't have real group policy, or extra Windows 10 desktop
management features. Watch this video and learn how to use Netwrix Endpoint Policy Manager (formerly
PolicyPak) to deliver REAL Group Policy settings and Endpoint Policy Manager's extra settings to all
your MDM enrolled Windows 10 machines.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gypENX30waY" title="Endpoint Policy Manager MDM Overview" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen="1"></iframe>

### PolicyPak and MDM: Deploying Real Group Policy (and Extra PolicyPak Settings) Overview

You've invested in an MDM service. That's great. Microsoft Intune, MobileIron or VMware AirWatch
offer the promise of managing you're always on-the-go Windows 10 machines, but they fall short of
real power. They have no way to deliver the awesome power of real Microsoft Group Policy over MDM to
your Windows 10 machines.

How would you like to deliver real Microsoft Group Policy settings and extra Endpoint Policy Manager
settings using your existing MDM service? Just add Endpoint Policy Manager to your existing MDM
service, and you'll be supercharged to deliver real Microsoft Group Policy plus Endpoint Policy
Manager's additional settings to manage the operating system, browser and security settings.

It's super easy, and it's only three steps.

Step one: simply create a real GPO and craft the exact policy settings you want. Settings can be
just about any Microsoft Group Policy or Endpoint Policy Manager setting. Just export those settings
as XML files and wrap them up as an MSI with our included Endpoint Policy Manager Exporter Utility.
Then upload the MSI into your MDM service.

Step two: upload the Endpoint Policy Manager Client Side Extension MSI File and Endpoint Policy
Manager License File into your MDM service. Once uploaded, this is the rocket fuel to make a Windows
10 machine accept your real Microsoft Group Policy and Endpoint Policy Manager settings using your
MDM service.

Step three: use your MDM service to target which Windows 10 machines should get what settings. Do
you want all machines to get all settings, or do you want some machines to get some settings? It's
up to you.

Then sit back and do…nothing.

When client machines join your MDM service, they simply get the signal to: 1) download the Endpoint
Policy Manager Client Side Extension, 2) download the Endpoint Policy Manager License File and 3)
download the real Microsoft Group Policy and Endpoint Policy Manager policies you wrapped up
earlier.

And just like that, your Windows 10 machines are getting as secure out in the field as they would be
back in the home office.

Supercharge your MDM service with Endpoint Policy Manager, and manage your Windows 10 machines like
a boss. Endpoint Policy Manager: securing your standards.
