---
title: "Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud: Adding New Admins"
description: "Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud: Adding New Admins"
sidebar_position: 40
---
# Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud: Adding New Admins

The process of adding new admins to your cloud service couldn't be easier. Watch this video to find
out how.

See
also:  [Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud Portal - Adding new company admins - Quickstart](/docs/endpointpolicymanager/gettingstarted/cloud/knowledgebase/cloudportalsecurity/administrator.md)

Hi, this is Whitney with PolicyPak Software. In this video, we are talking about adding a new admin
to your cloud service. There are a few different scenarios in which this could happen, so we'll walk
through them one-by-one.

Scenario number one, you are the sole admin of your cloud service and need to add someone new.
You'll go to Add Company Admin, put in their information, and from there you'll determine their role
membership.

We have videos going into more detail on this, but for this case we're going to choose Customer
Admin Manager so that we can work with scenario number two in just a moment. For now, we'll leave
them as Customer Admin Manager. We are going to create and send a welcome letter. That's it.
Scenario number one, done.

Scenario number two, yourself and at least one other admin of the organization has the customer
admin manager role. You wish to add yet another admin. When this is the case, you'll go. You can add
a Company Admin. You'll give them name, email address, and set whatever roles need to be created
here.

This time, we're going to create a request. This request is going to be sent to any other admin that
has the customer admin role. From there, they can then decide, yes, that's okay, and push it
through. This is an effort to increase security so that it requires effectively two factors to
create a new admin. Let's create a request.

When you do this, it lets you know that there is indeed one other member that can approve and accept
the request. Then you simply create the request and wait for your other admin to approve it. With a
little movie magic, let me show you what your other admin is going to see.

Here we are. When the second admin receives the email with the link in it, they will click on it and
this is what they will see. They will get the request details as well as the user details and can
then choose Confirm, Reject, or Close. I will confirm. They will then have to enter their two FA,
whether that's email or application based, and enter this. User was successfully created. We now
have a third member of our cloud service.

Scenario number three, there are multiple admins of the cloud service, but you are the only one with
the customer admin manager role. If this is the case, you can either choose to assign another admin
to the customer admin manager role so that they can approve the request as seen in scenario two.

If this isn't a possibility, you can always go to Add Company Admin, enter their information, and
then you'll create the request. At this point, you can scroll down, and you can choose to create the
request with PolicyPak Support confirmation. This may take a little longer to approve than having
one of your admins approve, but it is an option if creating another customer admin manager is not an
option.

Then you'll create the request. You'll say, Okay. From there, we'll take care of it, confirm the
request, and make sure that your user gets created as anticipated.

Hope this helps you out. Thanks so much.
